PySpark summary Chap 3.md, before:

## Proper explanation
```python

staticDataFrame = spark.read.format("csv")\
  .option("header", "true")\
  .option("inferSchema", "true")\
  .load("/data/retail-data/by-day/*.csv")

staticDataFrame.createOrReplaceTempView("retail_data")
staticSchema = staticDataFrame.schema


```
## Proper explanation
```python

from pyspark.sql.functions import window, column, desc, col
staticDataFrame\
  .selectExpr(
    "CustomerId",
    "(UnitPrice * Quantity) as total_cost",
    "InvoiceDate")\
  .groupBy(
    col("CustomerId"), window(col("InvoiceDate"), "1 day"))\
  .sum("total_cost")\
  .sort(desc("sum(total_cost)"))\
  .show(5)


```
## Proper explanation
```python

streamingDataFrame = spark.readStream\
    .schema(staticSchema)\
    .option("maxFilesPerTrigger", 1)\
    .format("csv")\
    .option("header", "true")\
    .load("/data/retail-data/by-day/*.csv")


```
## Proper explanation
```python

purchaseByCustomerPerHour = streamingDataFrame\
  .selectExpr(
    "CustomerId",
    "(UnitPrice * Quantity) as total_cost",
    "InvoiceDate")\
  .groupBy(
    col("CustomerId"), window(col("InvoiceDate"), "1 day"))\
  .sum("total_cost")


```
## Proper explanation
```python

purchaseByCustomerPerHour.writeStream\
    .format("memory")\
    .queryName("customer_purchases")\
    .outputMode("complete")\
    .start()


```
## Proper explanation
```python

spark.sql("""
  SELECT *
  FROM customer_purchases
  ORDER BY `sum(total_cost)` DESC
  """)\
  .show(5)


```
## Proper explanation
```python

from pyspark.sql.functions import date_format, col
preppedDataFrame = staticDataFrame\
  .na.fill(0)\
  .withColumn("day_of_week", date_format(col("InvoiceDate"), "EEEE"))\
  .coalesce(5)


```
## Proper explanation
```python

trainDataFrame = preppedDataFrame\
  .where("InvoiceDate < '2011-07-01'")
testDataFrame = preppedDataFrame\
  .where("InvoiceDate >= '2011-07-01'")


```
## Proper explanation
```python

from pyspark.ml.feature import StringIndexer
indexer = StringIndexer()\
  .setInputCol("day_of_week")\
  .setOutputCol("day_of_week_index")


```
## Proper explanation
```python

from pyspark.ml.feature import OneHotEncoder
encoder = OneHotEncoder()\
  .setInputCol("day_of_week_index")\
  .setOutputCol("day_of_week_encoded")


```
## Proper explanation
```python

from pyspark.ml.feature import VectorAssembler

vectorAssembler = VectorAssembler()\
  .setInputCols(["UnitPrice", "Quantity", "day_of_week_encoded"])\
  .setOutputCol("features")


```
## Proper explanation
```python

from pyspark.ml import Pipeline

transformationPipeline = Pipeline()\
  .setStages([indexer, encoder, vectorAssembler])


```
## Proper explanation
```python

fittedPipeline = transformationPipeline.fit(trainDataFrame)


```
## Proper explanation
```python

transformedTraining = fittedPipeline.transform(trainDataFrame)


```
## Proper explanation
```python

from pyspark.ml.clustering import KMeans
kmeans = KMeans()\
  .setK(20)\
  .setSeed(1L)


```
## Proper explanation
```python

kmModel = kmeans.fit(transformedTraining)


```
## Proper explanation
```python

transformedTest = fittedPipeline.transform(testDataFrame)


```
## Proper explanation
```python

from pyspark.sql import Row

spark.sparkContext.parallelize([Row(1), Row(2), Row(3)]).toDF()
```

Commit message:

Update PySpark summary Chap 3.md

PySpark summary Chap 3.md, after:

## Read a Static Data Set and Create a DF
```python

staticDataFrame = spark.read.format("csv")\
  .option("header", "true")\
  .option("inferSchema", "true")\
  .load("/data/retail-data/by-day/*.csv")

staticDataFrame.createOrReplaceTempView("retail_data")
staticSchema = staticDataFrame.schema


```
## Pyspark SQL functions
```python

from pyspark.sql.functions import window, column, desc, col
staticDataFrame\
  .selectExpr(
    "CustomerId",
    "(UnitPrice * Quantity) as total_cost",
    "InvoiceDate")\
  .groupBy(
    col("CustomerId"), window(col("InvoiceDate"), "1 day"))\
  .sum("total_cost")\
  .sort(desc("sum(total_cost)"))\
  .show(5)


```
## Streaming: ReadStream with MaxFilePerTrigger option
```python

streamingDataFrame = spark.readStream\
    .schema(staticSchema)\
    .option("maxFilesPerTrigger", 1)\
    .format("csv")\
    .option("header", "true")\
    .load("/data/retail-data/by-day/*.csv")


```
## Perform a summation in Streaming process
```python

purchaseByCustomerPerHour = streamingDataFrame\
  .selectExpr(
    "CustomerId",
    "(UnitPrice * Quantity) as total_cost",
    "InvoiceDate")\
  .groupBy(
    col("CustomerId"), window(col("InvoiceDate"), "1 day"))\
  .sum("total_cost")


```
## Write Stream
```python

purchaseByCustomerPerHour.writeStream\
    .format("memory")\
    .queryName("customer_purchases")\
    .outputMode("complete")\
    .start()


```
## SQL Selecting in Spark
```python

spark.sql("""
  SELECT *
  FROM customer_purchases
  ORDER BY `sum(total_cost)` DESC
  """)\
  .show(5)


```
## Manipulate Date Data
```python

from pyspark.sql.functions import date_format, col
preppedDataFrame = staticDataFrame\
  .na.fill(0)\
  .withColumn("day_of_week", date_format(col("InvoiceDate"), "EEEE"))\
  .coalesce(5)


```
## Split Data to Training and Test sets
```python

trainDataFrame = preppedDataFrame\
  .where("InvoiceDate < '2011-07-01'")
testDataFrame = preppedDataFrame\
  .where("InvoiceDate >= '2011-07-01'")


```
## StringIndexer: Automate General Transformations
```python

from pyspark.ml.feature import StringIndexer
indexer = StringIndexer()\
  .setInputCol("day_of_week")\
  .setOutputCol("day_of_week_index")


```
## Encode days to numerical values with OneHotEncoder
```python

from pyspark.ml.feature import OneHotEncoder
encoder = OneHotEncoder()\
  .setInputCol("day_of_week_index")\
  .setOutputCol("day_of_week_encoded")


```
## Assemble Set of Columns to a Vector
```python

from pyspark.ml.feature import VectorAssembler

vectorAssembler = VectorAssembler()\
  .setInputCols(["UnitPrice", "Quantity", "day_of_week_encoded"])\
  .setOutputCol("features")


```
## Set Key Features into a Pipeline
```python

from pyspark.ml import Pipeline

transformationPipeline = Pipeline()\
  .setStages([indexer, encoder, vectorAssembler])


```
## Index the Distinct Values
```python

fittedPipeline = transformationPipeline.fit(trainDataFrame)


```
## Use Fitted Pipeline to Transform All of Data in a Consistent and Repeatable Way
```python

transformedTraining = fittedPipeline.transform(trainDataFrame)


```
## Training the Model
```python

from pyspark.ml.clustering import KMeans
kmeans = KMeans()\
  .setK(20)\
  .setSeed(1L)


```
## Kmeans Model
```python

kmModel = kmeans.fit(transformedTraining)


```
## Compute the Cost
```python

transformedTest = fittedPipeline.transform(testDataFrame)
kmModel.computeCost(transformedTest)

```
## Parallelize Some Simple Numbers and Create a DataFrame
```python

from pyspark.sql import Row

spark.sparkContext.parallelize([Row(1), Row(2), Row(3)]).toDF()
```
